Let's talk about text blocks,
which are basically used to work
with multi-line strings, all right?
And this is also something
that's relatively new to
the Java language,
maybe a year or two old.
But yeah, text can be pretty
ugly to work with in Java,
especially when it's multi-line.
So this was life before text blocks.
Let's say you had a JSON response that
you wanted to represent in the string.
I would have to, one,
add all of these new line characters,
so that \n is a new line character,
after each line.
And then these ugly plus signs,
I would need to escape any quotes,
so you know JSON has quotes,
for the key part.
And so, each one of those, I would
have to put a slash in front of it.
It's absolute nightmare to deal with,
all right?
So text blocks allows you to
cleanly define multi-line
strings by using three quotation
marks to open and to close.
Now, I don't have the new line characters,
I don't have the plus signs,
I don't have to escape any quotes.
It's just nice and clean, and
I can actually read this JSON now [LAUGH].
So that's text blocks,
they work pretty much like strings,
other than how they're defined here.
Some rules, you cannot open and
close a text block all on the same line,
right?
They're really supposed to be for
multi-line text anyway.
So this doesn't really make sense
to have this one line in a text
block versus just a regular string.
But yeah, you cannot have the opening and
closing on the same line.
So I move the text to a new line,
this is legal, but
this is also not the preferred way.
So the preferred convention
is start the three lines,
add any text you need in the three
quotes on its own new line, right?
All right, so that is it for
text, so we talked about strings.
We talked about string builder, and
then we also talked about text blocks.
Any questions on strings, yeah.
>> Is text blocks,
are they similar to strings,
do they have the same split and
all that kind of stuff?
>> Yeah, so you can utilize them.
You can even, when you define the type,
you would even define that as string.
So I can say string message = this hey
y'all, and then I do whatever I want.
So the data type is a string.
Good question, yes.
>> When you're working with StringBuilder,
would the return type of
the function be StringBuilder?
>> Which function is it?
Are they referring to-
>> I think that, yeah,
they're referring to the-
>> The constructor.
So this, I put var here.
So this would actually be a StringBuilder.
That would be the type, not string.
>> And I think they're asking,
if they were to be returning from
a function with StringBuilder,
StringBuilder would be the return type.
>> StringBuilder is the type, so
StringBuilder is not the same as string,
right?
StringBuilder is a mutable
version of string.
So yeah, the datatype would be different.
Let's see what happens
if I put string here.
Yeah, doesn't like it.
>> You declared it as a new StringBuilder,
so.
The modified type-
>> I'll show you that doesn't
always matter in a later lesson.